Payments to the CRA

Arrange to pay your personal debt over time
If you can’t pay your debt right away, you can schedule a series of payments in the My Account / My Business Account portals using a pre-authorized debit (PAD) agreement. A PAD is a secure, online payment option to pay your debt.

You can also call the CRA to set up a payment arrangement if you can’t confirm a PAD agreement online. A payment arrangement is an agreement with the CRA to pay your balance with regular payments over time. 

On this page
Schedule a series of payments
Set up a payment arrangement
Adjust your payment arrangement
Schedule a series of payments
To see if you can use this option to pay your debt, go to How to schedule a series of payments.

Calculate your monthly income and expenses
Use the personal income and expense worksheet to determine what you can afford to pay on a regular basis.

Log in to My Account / My Business Account
You can see different payment schedule options using the secure My Account / My Business Account portal, when you select “Proceed to pay”.

Schedule a series of payments
Fill in the fields to calculate payment schedules to see different options that are possible. For more information, go to Schedule a series of payments.

Confirm a PAD agreement
Confirm a PAD agreement when you have found a payment schedule that works best for you.

Set up a payment arrangement
If you owe an amount to the CRA, we will work with you to find the best way to pay your debt through a payment arrangement.

Calculate your monthly income and expenses
Use the personal income and expense worksheet to determine what you can afford to pay on a regular basis.

Call the CRA to set up your payment arrangement
You must call to set up a payment arrangement:

Automated TeleArrangement service
Telephone number:
 1-866-256-1147
Hours:
Dedicated hours
DateHours
Monday to Friday	7 am to 10 pm (ET)
Saturday and Sunday	Closed
Closed on public holidays

Speak to a CRA agent
Start your payment arrangement
To start your payment arrangement, you need to make your first payment towards your debt.

You must continue to make payments on the agreed upon dates in your payment arrangement and file all future tax returns on time. Your payment arrangement may be reviewed periodically.

For options, go to make a payment.

Even if you have a payment arrangement and are making payments, benefits and other credit payments you receive can be used to pay your debt.

Adjust your payment arrangement
If anything changes and you need to adjust your payment arrangement or you are Unable to pay, you must Contact the CRA.

Failure to do this may cause the CRA to proceed with legal actions to collect the balance you owe.